what's up my smart smart friends I'm
Brendon huffard today in this video we
are talking about how to set up a fast
secure and reliable WordPress website in
five minutes plus if you watch to the
end of the video I will share with you
the number one mistake people make when
starting their new website let's go so
if you are new here I'm Brendan Hufford
I've radically changed my life
transformed my career transformed what
I'm able to provide for my family with
SEO and one of the core parts of search
engine optimization is having a good
website that ranks in search and Before
we jump into my computer which is
actually like right over there I want to
tell you a quick story the first time
that I set up a website I had no idea
what I was doing I registered a domain
name I started I knew I needed hosting
so I went to Hostgator little cringy I
went to Hostgator and I didn't know how
to set anything up and I tried and I
tried to follow the instructions they
had on there and their support was awful
you know leave a comment below if you're
watching the video and you have gone
through this if you've ever dealt with
any of those companies that are owned by
that same kind of conglomerate Hostgator
Bluehost etc and you've tried to get
help from their support and it's just
been absolutely abysmal
anyway they couldn't help me here's what
I ended up doing I ended up hitting up
one of my buddies who lived in
Indianapolis he basically just said like
send me the login credentials and I'll
figure it out and within an hour he's
like hey dude your website set up and
I'm like cool but I still don't
understand how to do that so what I want
to give you today is an actual
walkthrough of how to buy a domain name
and set up your first website without
having to know any sort of like
technical knowledge or how to code you
could literally have no idea about any
of that stuff the biggest thing I hear
people tell me about WordPress websites
is they're intimidated by the coding
side of it they're intimidated that they
need some sort of technical knowledge
and if you watch this video to the end
not only am I going to share with you
the biggest mistake that people make
when setting up their website I'll prove
to you that you do not need any of that
technical expertise to set it up all
right I like to use hover for my domain
registration for a wide variety of
reasons but
today I am going to register build a
blog fast dot-com that domain is
available so I'm going to add it to my
cart and start checking out I love that
privacy is free get on here to the
secure checkout and I guess for all the
way down to the bottom here and submit
my order
oops check off Terms of Service don't
read them nobody reads them right makes
it go faster perfect now I can go to
manage my domain I'm going to leave this
open right now because I'm gonna hop
over to flywheel let me log in here
really quickly perfect first thing I'm
gonna do is go to create a new site I'm
going to call my site name build a blog
fast temporary domain can just be build
a blog fast dot flywheel sites calm put
in my password I would like to pay right
now please choose a plan I'm gonna go
with the tiny plan so I'm gonna choose
this plan I'm gonna start out with
monthly I would recommend yearly if
you're really committed to it I don't
need a content delivery network SSL
support is included so I'll use that
select my payment method and go to pay
now
it does take them just a moment to spin
up the new website and then I will go
about hooking up my domain build a blog
fast calm to this website so when I
click back over to my dashboard I see
all of my sites here they log fast I
will click on it I want to make sure
that I'm doing a couple things right
here I need to set up my main domain so
I go to add another domain the URL is
build a blog fast calm also add that yes
add the domain I should check primary
there I can go back and do that
momentarily I click over here I want to
make this the primary I don't like the
www in there you can see this little
issue pops up the DNS is not pointed to
flywheel so here's what I'm going to do
I take my DNS listed here I hop back
over to hover and I'm going to set that
here in hover I'll go ahead and paste
that in now DNS by nature can take a
little bit of time to set up and come
right back in here to flywheel and check
that DNS status and you can see that
things are already starting to set up
and work properly now while I'm doing
this I can load the actual website just
to get a look at what it looks like
right now one thing I love to do while
my d and this is being synched up is
they have this really cool flywheel DNS
checker you can just find it by googling
for it I love to come in here and see
just make sure everything's lining up
correctly and it just lets you know like
from all these different things are we
having the right IP returns so there's
still a couple where it's returning that
default IP from flywheel so we'll go
back in and we'll take a look in my
dashboard and make sure everything's set
up correctly
alright so hopping back over here into
the dashboard
scrolling down build a blog fast we can
see it's all loaded up there is an SSL
error so I have to fill out the form
make sure they have some important
information from me so get in fill this
in
I could spell properly and I can
complete that setup perfect so hopping
over to the website and scroll down here
to login code and login and we are
logged in if I want to really quickly
set up a theme I can hop over here to
themes pick one of the generic themes
just to get started and now we have a
working website real quick hopping back
over here one to take a look so I have
the SSL certificate active the one thing
I want to make sure I do in here that I
see a lot of people make a mistake about
is I wanna hop into advanced and I want
to make sure I force that HTTPS across
the entire website now this will take a
second to load this happens every single
time that I do this but I want to make
sure that I force that across everything
so matter what page anybody goes to on
my website it is secure it's extremely
extremely important this will enable it
across the entire website alright so
that's it I hope this has been helpful
for you you don't know how to code you
don't know what a server is you barely
know how the internet works that's fine
most of the time neither do I but what I
do know is using a system like what I've
shown you in this video is fast and it
is reliable and if you get stuck you
have support resources and you also have
access to a really strong support team
so follow the instructions leave a
comment below if you have any questions
and in five minutes you will have a fast
reliable secure website that looks
professional is more likely to rank in
search and honestly just gets you a lot
closer to your SEO goals and at the same
cost as a square space or a Wix so now
that you know better you can
do better if you want to check out fly
we'll go to 100 days of seo.com /
flywheel and if you want to check out
hover you can go to 100 days of seo.com
/ hover and finally thank you again to
fly wheel for sponsoring 100 days of SEO
if you need any sort of hosting for your
wordpress website you want to take
search seriously check them out if you
need really high quality show notes for
your videos or your podcasts go to pod
reach or com I've been written Huffer
don't forget to work hard be nice people
and don't get too lost trying to create
something that matters
[Music]